---
tags: meta
---
Hello!

This is officially the first post on the blog. As I write this, the website
isn't even on a git repository yet. I'm actually in this process of 
migrating it from a static HTML/CSS/JS site to use Jekyll to generate
some of the repetitive content, like these blog posts. Why don't I tell
you about how the site is currently working?

## Current stack

I chose to slightly rework the site in order to take advantage of some
features that were hard to use before, like *Sass*, or *Github Actions*.

*Sass* is saving me a moderate amount of CSS by allowing neat features
like selector nesting. As an example, I can turn the following CSS into
a much shorter *Sass* file by using selector nesting:

{% highlight css %}
/* The .css file */
.class1 h1 {
    color: white;
}

.class2 h2 {
    color: red;
}
{% endhighlight %}


{% highlight scss %}
{% raw %}
/* The .scss file */
.class1 {
    h1 {
        color: white;
    }

    h2 {
        color: red;
    }
}
{% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}


This site uses two separate files to define its dark theme, so when
you click the dark mode icon in the right corner, a class is added to
the body that enables the dark styles. I wanted to reimplement this
feature using *Sass* to store the different colors in variables, and
then when the button is toggled, the variable value could be changed,
but that was not possible. *Sass* generates static CSS files from the 
variables, so updating *Sass* variable value at runtime doesn't make
any sense.

I'm able to use *Github Actions* to implement a continuous deployment
system. Each time I push the site, a version of *Ruby* running on
a Github server builds the site, and deploys the files to a separate
branch, which hosts the site.

## Next steps

In the future of the site, I'd like to be able to persist dark mode
across many pages. I've read that using a cookie is probably the way
to go for this. I'd also like to be able to host some of the games
I've created, and I will look into creating a game template that
wraps the games into a nicely presented player along with some 
information.

That's all I wanted to talk about for now, but I'll be sure to post
more updates to the site and my projects in the future!